And welcome back.
One thing I noticed from the previous video is in my Constans file I should make sure that my variable
and my strings are the same.
So just adding an underscore here are right.
So let's talk about the next part which is using the other method that comes with reac redux which is
connect
now this connect function is optimized in order for us to avoid using something called store dots subscript.
So if you remember when we canceled logged the store in our apt.
Yes we had a few functions including the get state function that we locked.
Now there's also a dot subscribe function which subscribes.
Any component that is interested to be aware of redux and listen to any changes.
But that's a little tedious and connect simplifies the process by simply saying use the connect function.
And with that we're going to make the component redux aware.
If you remember the Kinect components would be the yellow little components that know about redux.
So we've created the provider component that essentially passes down the store to the components.
But now we have to say which.
Which one of these Riak components we want to be smart or be aware that the redox library exists and
they can subscribe to changes.
So I'm going to show you how to do that and this video
and by the way this standard in the industry is that we call these smart components containers kind
of like apt.
Yes.
So we're most likely going to connect the app digest file because it is a container.
So the very first thing we're going to do is go to APT O.J.'s file and within here we want to import
a few things.
Let's start off with importing the actions.
So I'm going to import the actions that we have.
Let's go over here.
We have the set search field action.
So we're going to do the set search field action and we're going to import that from the actions that
Jap's vah and because actions suggest fall is folder level up since the dodgiest is in the containers.
I'm going to do the double periods.
Let's save that and we get a nice little warning saying that sets are fields search field is defined
but never used.
That's also safe her index file perfect.
Let's now use this connect method that I've been talking about.
So now the top over here I'm going to say import the connect method from re-act redux and this connect
method.
The way it works.
And again and you just have to get used to it is at the very bottom where we do export default.
We're going to say connect is going to be a function and then another or another bracket's around app.
Now this syntax might look a little bit confusing and connect to something we call higher order function
in a higher order function is a function that returns another function so connect is going to run and
whatever connect does inside of this function is going to return another function.
And because it returns another function it's going to run this part with the app.
So that's how higher order components work and you'll learn more about these later on in your career.
But for now just know that this is the syntax you just have to get used to it and list out a newline
so we can see it better here.
Now within here connect accepts two parameters which again are standard I can name them whatever I want
but we're just following the redux standards which the first one is map state to props and the second
one is map dispatch.
Two crops.
All right.
So right now we've just connected this component this app component and said hey subscribe to any state
changes in the redux store.
And now app knows that there is a redux store somewhere and any time that there's changes to it it might
be interested in.
But now we need to tell it what to be interested in.
That is what state should I listen to one dispatch or what action should I listen to.
So let's go back to the top and at the very top here.
We want to define these functions that or these parameters to all we're going to do is say Konst map
state to props and this is going to receive a state and oops.
And it's going to return
an object
and like I said before you can name these whatever you want but this is the standard and any redox app
you'll just see this or just get used to the syntax.
Once you do it a couple times it becomes second nature.
All right.
And here we want to say that the search field
state which again if we go to our reducers we have a search field over here
this search field state is going to equal a state which we receive dot the part of the reducer which
again if we go to reducers is search robots so search robots
search field.
So again it's saying that the search field that we're going to return which is going to be used as props
by the hop component is going to come from the state not Stata state DOT search robots dot search field
which again comes from our producer because remember in index our jazz file we've created the store
with the search robots REDUCE-IT.
So if we go back here let's save that and we have match dispatched to prop's is not defined.
And again because we need the second part which is Matt dispatched to prop's So let's again create that
will say that Konst map dispatched to prop's is going to receive something called dispatch.
And again something that you'll just have to get used to dispatch if you remember in our discussion
about flock's is what triggers the action so inaction is just an object that we've created.
Again if you remember but in order to send this action we need something called dispatch still.
So it gets dispatched into the reducer.
So this dispatch can now be used to send actions and the way we do that we can say on search change
which is just the name that I can say anything.
So remember this is a prop that it's going to receive.
But we're going to keep it the same as the one that we've had in our re-act app on search change.
And so this is what the Propp is going to be named and the on search change is going to receive an event
because remember it's a input box that users type and this event again because on search change is a
function is going to dispatch the action set search field because remember the action is just an object
just a function that returns an object.
We want to dispatch that.
So the producers are aware of it and this search field when it gets dispatched is going to listen to.
If you remember in our actions it's going to receive a text that is whatever the user has and put it
in which case we can just do event dot target dot value again just like we have in the on search change
year event that target de-value.
So if I save this let me make this a little bit smaller and save.
Now I have a few little warnings.
One is that remember we need to return this as an object.
So we want to say return just like we did above with the state an object that contains all of our action.
Again map state to prop's is tell me what state what piece state and I need to listen to and send us
props and map dispatched to prop's says hey tell me what prop's I should listen to that are actions
that need to get dispatched.
All right everything is working.
We're not getting any errors over here.
And remember now that down here in the connect we know what map state to prop's is map dispatched to
processes and connect is going to run the first part of the function and say Okay I'm listening to this
part of the state and I'm interested in these actions and then it's going to give those props to the
app.
Here's the exciting part.
Because remember I said redox can replace your state in your app.
I can technically now remove the search field from this state from the app and I can also remove on
search change because again that's coming down as props.
We don't need to declare it as a method of app so I can delete that now.
And then down here I'm not interested in this state search field anymore.
I can remove that because now it's coming down as props.
So instead I can say Konst
search field with capital F comes from this stop props and finally the on search change doesn't come
from this on search change which was a method of the app.
It comes from the props.
So again I can say on search change and remove the dot this let's say that
and again I'll get an error saying that search field is not defined because remember with our redux
state we changed the search field to have capital path.
So if I changed that so it understands that that's what we're interested in.
Everything is working.
Now here's a little gotcha right now because in our index our last fall we only have one releaser.
We're creating the store from this if we go back to APT.
Yes state actually only has one field and that is search field.
So we would have to do something like this.
In order for it to work now we're going to get back to this point because once we start adding more
peace of state and more reducers we're going to have to get state from each piece that we're interested
in.
But for now we're going to get back to that we're just going to say state search field because if you
remember and Konsole dot log store don't get state.
We just had the search field.
So let's save that and go back.
All right.
Nothing in the console that's good.
The moment of truth if I type something here.
Look at that.
Everything is working despite the fact that we no longer have the state for the search field in here
or the method.
Instead everything is going through redux.
And just to test that theory if I go in here into my set search field and instead of having these automatic
return I'm going to say console or log text and I'm going to return from here the object so we're just
going to console log to see if the action is coming through.
I save and go back.
Let's open up the tool the console and look at that.
Everything I type is being sent through the action.
And another cool part is if I go to the reducer and again I test everything out and I say console dog
log dot action type I save this and go back we see that we have a little funny action that happens.
And this is the default when redox initiated.
By now if I click on anything or type something I get change search real change search field because
the reducer on every action gets run and says did change change search should action happen.
If that's the case I'm going to return a new state.
Very cool.
We've just connected our react up to redox and everything works nicely.
There's a bit of boilerplate here and you know you have to remember map state to prop's map dispatched
to prop's but once you get used to that syntax it's really really nice and beautiful the way redox works
and how we've cleaned up everything where everything flows nicely just like we mentioned we've created
an interaction that gets dispatched into a reduce or a function that based on that action takes the
state and changes it in the store.
And because the store got updated re-act components that are interested are going to listen to those
changes and make a change.
Very cool.
All right some more exciting stuff coming up in the next video.
I'll see on that one.
Bye bye.